---
title: DGFT Helpdesk for Russia-Ukraine related International Trade Issues
date: 2022-02-28
tags: [russia-ukraine]
---

In view of the current international situation, Department of Commerce and DGFT have undertaken to monitor the status and related difficulties being faced by stakeholders on Russia/Ukraine trade related issues. Department of Commerce/DGFT has operationalised a Helpdesk to support and seek suitable resolutions to issues related to India’s International Trade in this regard with immediate effect.

Export-Import community may submit details of their issues on the DGFT website, on which support is required, using the following steps--

1. Navigate to the DGFT Website (https://dgft.gov.in ) -- > Services -- > DGFT Helpdesk Service

1. ‘Create New Request’ and select the Category as ‘Russia-Ukraine’

Alternatively, you may send your issues directly over email to: dgftedi@nic.in with the subject header: ‘Russia-Ukraine Trade Helpdesk’, or call the Toll-Free No at 1800-111-550

The status may be tracked using the Status tracker under the DGFT Helpdesk Services. Email and SMS would be generated for immediate intimation as and when the status of these tickets are updated. Trade Community is requested to make use of the given Helpdesk facility suitably.

Further, a weekly meeting with concerned exporters/importers/other trade stakeholders will also be held by DGFT & FT(CIS) division of Department of Commerce every Monday at 03:00 pm IST via Video Conference. Concerned stakeholders may consider joining the said virtual meeting to flag specific issues. The web-link for the proposed Video Conference is as [follows](https://example.com)

This issues with the approval of the competent authority.
