---
title: Settlement and ‘follow’ clause in Marine Insurance
date: 2022-03-31
sourceName: EXIM India
sourceLink: https://eximin.net/newsdetails.aspx?news_id=4295&frndate=04/04/2022&tondate=04/04/2022&snkeywords=
tags: [insurance]
---

In the insurance industry, the phrase “follow the settlements” refers to a legal provision that is often included in reinsurance contracts. The purpose of the provision is to clarify that, if the reinsured party decides to settle a claim with one or more policyholders, the reinsurer will honour those settlements. It clarifies that a reinsurer will accept and honour the settlements made by the ceding party. This means that a reinsurer can only challenge the question of the reinsured’s underlying legal liability in limited circumstances. These provisions are an important way for insurance companies to manage their risks.

All insurers subscribing hereto agree that all additions, deletions, amendments, alternations, agreements, endorsements, attachments, schedules, adjustments, cancellations, extensions and additional or return premiums to be agreed by Leading Insurer only and to be binding, without notice, upon all other insurers and to follow Leading Insurer in every respect.

All insurers further agree that the Leading Insurer has the right, in all respects, to decide any matter relating to any claim made under this Program, including but not limited to any decisions agreements, payments, settlements, claims, surveys, guarantees, towage, salvage, payments on account and claim settlements, excluding ex-gratia payments.

A ‘follow’ clause in an insurance policy requires an insurer to pay even when a settlement entered into by other insurers in respect of the same loss is expressed as not binding other insurers.

Follow clauses take many different forms but generally require following underwriters to follow the lead underwriter in respect of certain matters; for example the settlement of claims. Although there is no joint liability between participating insurers, the lead insurer takes responsibility for dealing with any claims on the policy and negotiating any settlements for itself and following insurers. If the lead insurer settles, then the following insurers are bound to settle on the same terms with the assured. Their recourse (if any) for a bad settlement is against the lead insurer. Such follow clauses reduce cost and simplify the resolution of claims involving multiple insurers, resulting in co-insurance being more attractive to those buying insurance.

## Case Study: San Evans Maritime Inc and Others v Aigaion Insurance Co SA (ST EFREM) [2014] EWHC 163

### Background

On or about 27 July 2010, the vessel St Efrem suffered a generator breakdown and ran aground in Paranagua, Brazil and had to be towed from Brazil to the Ivory Coast. A claim was brought under its insurance. That insurance was split between one policy subscribed by three Lloyd’s syndicates (Catlin, Ark, and Brit, with the leader being Catlin) and a Greek insurer Aigaion (20 per cent of the risk was uninsured).
The vessel was insured for a value of US$3,800,000 by three Lloyd’s Syndicates: Catlin, Arc and Brit (the “Lead Policy”). The Lloyd’s market made up 50% of the slip with 30% insured by Aigaion on slightly different terms from the Lead Policy (the “Aigaion Policy”). The balance of the risk 20% was uninsured.

On 24 April 2012, the Syndicates on the Lead Policy, Catlin, Ark, and Brit settled the claim against them for USD $779,500. The settlement between them and the assured expressly provided that the settlement was made by each syndicate for its respective participation only, and that the settlement did not ‘bind any other insurer providing hull and machinery cover’ for the vessel.

### The Judgment

The Court first considered whether the ‘follow’ clause in the Aigaion Policy required Aigaion to follow any settlement by Catlin and Brit under the Lead Policy. The Court noted that ‘follow’ clauses come in a variety of different forms. It is therefore necessary in each case to examine the terms of the ‘follow’ clause in question.

In this case, the ‘follow’ clause obliged Aigaion to follow the terms of the settlement entered into by the syndicates. It was irrelevant that the syndicates had settled only on their own behalf, as Aigaion had separately agreed with the assured to follow any such settlement. This interpretation of the clause was consistent with the purpose of the ‘follow’ clause to simplify the process of claims settlement.
